# HShaw_Answers
##Heidi Shaw's Ada Developers Academy Essay Answers
1. My interests in programming are both personal and professional.  I am a data driven individual- I not only enjoy designing, collecting, and analyzing data, but I also have found myself down a career trajectory that is requiring it more and more.  I often find myself in situations with large datasets where I can only do limited data analysis because I don't have the ability to do anything more effective with it.  I have questions, good questions, but in order to answer them I need to power of programming to answer them.  I've done enough with SQL and Python through codeacademy and ArcGIS to see how programming could help me- but I need to master it to do anything effective.  I want to learn how to program because it is the only way that I can find the answers.
2. If accepted into the program, I envision myself working as a data analyst for companies and organizations that have health-based research initiatives, such as University of Washington's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation.  I see myself applying the skills that I've gained from the Ada Developers Academy towards a career that contributes to measurable improvements in the global experience of disease through data analysis.  I believe that with the help of Ada, that dream can be actualized.    
3. One of the biggest ways that I will contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community is through the promotion and actualization of individual value.  Every single person is different and has something unique to offer.  That individuality should be cherished and respected.  I will always work towards encouraging individual talents and creating a safe environment for self-expression.  I think that these concepts are especially important in a male gender dominated field where a female gendered individual could feel particularly vulnerable.
4. A couple of years ago, I started working for a company in a position that I felt completely underqualified for.  Rather than ask questions or reach out for help, I kept quiet and became defensive about my work, feeling as though any input from colleagues or supervisors was a criticism.  I kept up this attitude for a few months before breaking under the stress and becoming emotionally and physically exhausted.  Fortunately, I had some amazing colleagues who helped me to understand that my feelings were common and often attributed to something called "imposter's syndrome."  I found out through talking with them that my actions weren't just detrimental to myself, but they were also detrimental to the learning experiences of my colleagues.  It was something they too struggled with, but they had learned how to be open with one another and to provide a safe space for learning.  From this experience I grew to understand that all of us are in a constant state of learning and that it is okay to ask questions and to be unsure.  I felt less afraid to express ignorance or confusion after that, and found that when I did ask for help I felt better about myself and learned something to boot!  I still struggle with the feeling time to time, but I know now that those are feelings that I should not be ashamed of.  I know now that my mistake was in not asking for help.  I also know that I will encounter similar situations with similar feelings again (and again), but I hope that next time I allow myself to reach out, to ask for help when help is needed.
